On average 2,063 bicycles were redistributed per day in 2015

In 2015...
Weekday Vans: 30
Weekend Vans: 30
Bank Holiday Vans: 31

Weekday Staff: 30
Weekend Staff: 14
Bank Holiday Staff: 25

Van Depots: 
-Kings Cross
-Clapham

 We operate a zonal system of redistribution with dedicated vehicles to try
to ensure availability of bikes and spaces. TfL continues to work with
Serco to find the best methods of redistribution possible, to maximise the
availability of cycles and free docking points across the scheme. However,
mainline rail stations are particularly problematic, because of the
extremely tidal nature of usage.  In other words, whereas we hope docking
stations will have a natural ebb and flow, those near stations tend to
empty out in the morning, and fill up in the evening.  While we attempt to
manage this demand, it remains the most difficult part of our
redistribution efforts. We do attempt to alleviate these problems by
positioning staff at these key sites

 

Although we endeavour to prevent any single docking station from remaining
full or empty for long periods of time, the scheme is designed to work in
such a way that if there are no cycles at a particular docking station, or
a free docking point, there will be one nearby which does have bikes or
docking points available.  To help customers find them, the status of the
six nearest docking stations is displayed on the terminal, and customers
who find a station full can get an extra 15 minutes of free time to cycle
to the next one. Borough restrictions also influence how and when we are
able to perform redistribution activity, with both Westminster and
Kensington & Chelsea not allowing us to operate in certain areas between
the hours of 22.00-08.00, creating significant challenges in meeting
morning peak demand.

Our contractorâ€™s redistribution teams work continually to ensure bicycles
are where they are needed and move them around docking stations to ensure
that there are bicycles available for those wanting to use them and space
for people to leave their bikes at the end of each journey. In addition,
teams are deployed in the morning and evening rush hours to ensure we can
meet demand, and we continue to work with the nine London boroughs where
Santander Cycles is based in order to get more docking points installed at
popular locations and identify additional sites.
